[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: So
that brings us to the browser.
So the browser platform
is horribly insecure,
we're still fixing it
later after over 20 years.
HTML5 made things worse instead of better
by providing powerful new capabilities to
the attacker without mitigating
any of the preexisting weaknesses.
And yet it is still the world's
best application delivery system.
It is better than everything else
including systems that were designed
after the Web.
Everybody refused to
learn the Web's lessons.
So one of the things that the Web got
right, that virtually every other platform
has gotten wrong is the web does not
have a blame the victim security model.
A very common thing in systems is,
that if a system has to make
a decision about security and
does not have enough information to make
a correct decision, it will ask the user.
And it will ask the user in language
that the user cannot understand.
And if the user says no, then it fails.
And if the user says yes, it is the users
fault for giving up their security.
This is not a valid model of security but
we see it all the time.
For example, I recently bought
an alarm clock at the Android store.
And it was only after I bought it,
that I looked at the permissions.
And one of the permissions it wanted
was unlimited access to the internet.
[INAUDIBLE] Wait a minute,
why does a clock need unlimited
access to the internet?
And my choices are now, to let my clock
leak everything it can find in my
device and send it who knows where.
Or I'm out the money I spent on the clock,
and it's just,
that's not a good model of security.
So the thing that the browser got right,
that everything else got wrong
was the answer to this question.
Whose interest does the program represent?
From the beginning of computing it is
always been assumed that a program
represents the owner of the machine or
at least the owner of the account.
And the browser says no,
the program represents a site and
a site does not necessarily
represent the user.
Which was absolutely right.
And nobody else has figured that out.
Unfortunately the web got
a lot of other things wrong.
The web didn't anticipate that there
could be more interests involved
in a page than just the user and the site.
And that a malicious party can
exploit coding conventions to inject
malicious code.
And that malicious code gets
all of the rights of the site.
This is known as the XSS problem.
We'll talk more about XSS in a minute.
But to ground this, I mean, you're always
hearing people whining about security and
how terrible all the problems are.
Let's get really specific.
In this XSS attack,
what can actually go wrong?
What can an attacker do,
if he can get some script onto your page?
The attacker can request additional
scripts from any server in the world.
Once it gets a foothold, and it only needs
about that much text in order to do that,
it can then obtain all
of the scripts it wants.
Browsers have a security policy called
the same origin policy which limit
the ability of the browser to get data
from other servers but there is no limit
at all on how much program you can load
from the most evil server in the world.
An attacker can read the document.
The attacker can see
everything the user can see,
and even things the user can't see.
The attacker can see comments and
hidden fields, cookies,
everything we transmit to the browser,
the attacker gets access to.
The attacker can make
requests of your server and
your server cannot detect that the request
did not originate with your application.
If you're using SSL, and
you should, the attacker gets
access to your secure connection.
If your server accepts SQL queries then
the attacker gets access to your database.
Now if instead your server is constructing
SQL queries based on information that
it gets from the browser, then you're only
probably giving access, to the attacker
to your database and that's because SQL
was optimized for SQL injection attacks.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Douglas Crockford: Thank you.
[LAUGH]
An attacker has
control over the display and
can request information from the user and
the user cannot detect that the request
did not originate with your application.
So modern browsers have
anti-phishing chrome.
And unfortunately most users
don't pay any attention to that.
But if they are paying attention to it,
in this case, the browser is saying, it's
good, because all the browser's concerned
with is where did the HTML come from.
The browser doesn't pay any attention
to where did the script come from.
And the script could have
come from anywhere, and
the script is what's gonna
cause the damage, not the HTML.
So knowing this on some sites, whenever
something dangerous is about to happen,
they will ask the user to
type their password again.
And the theory is that only
the user will know the password.
And that way, we can be confident
that this is not going on.
Except that the attacker
has control of the display.
And so the attacker can ask the user,
what's your password?
And the browser was saying, good tell him.
So if If you're operating one of these
sites which asks people to re-identify
themselves at unlikely times, what
you're actually doing is training your
users to give up their passwords
the instant the attacker gets control.
>> Douglas Crockford: Then the attacker
can send information to servers anywhere
in the world.
Everything that they learned by scraping
the page, by talking to the user,
by querying your database,
they can then send this to the most
evil server on the planet.
Again, the browser has a same
origin policy which limits their
ability to receive data
from other servers but
it puts no limit on their ability to
send all of these stolen information.
So, and the browser,
is this starting to freak anybody out?
Because why are we doing
business on this platform?
Is that anyone-
>> Speaker 3: [INAUDIBLE] I just kind of
what's in the world course.
Takes care of all this for us right?
>> Douglas Crockford: No,
no, nobody's taking it.
>> Speaker 3: I'm really waiting for
you to explain to me, I don't know.
Where, I wanna know what I'm doing.
>> Douglas Crockford: I
think I'm making it clear.
Anyway but
the browser does not prevent any of these.
Web standards require these weaknesses.
If you were to build a new
web browser from scratch.
If it didn't subject you and
your customers to all of these
potential problems,
it would not be standards compliant.
And the consequences of
a successful attack are horrible,
there's harm to customers or loss of
trust, there are legal liabilities.
There's even talk now about criminal
liabilities for negligence, for
allowing people to have
their identity stolen.